with the Cova 19 pandemic in full-swing
you'll want to wear a surgical mask when
you're exposed to people but if you're
wearing glasses you might find that
sometimes the last cause of them to fog
up so what can you do about that stick
around and I'll give you a very simple
solution hi I'm Robert Vario you'll find
that under some circumstances your
glasses will fog up because of the mask
that happens when the humidity is high
and there is little or no air
circulation today is April the 11th 2020
and I was at the hardware store this
morning since I don't want to come down
with the virus I was wearing a surgical
mask of course
[Music]
and as I was rummaging through the bins
and
nuts-and-bolts from my next project my
glasses became fogged up that reminded
me of the days when I was doing research
and embryo biotechnology I was working
for hours at a time at a microscope for
assisting in surgical procedures since I
needed to protect my subjects from
contamination I wore a surgical mask and
I had to devise a way of keeping my
glasses from fogging up that's when I
developed my anti fog barrier
why do glasses fog up in the first place
first consider that the mask in front of
your face is a barrier to prevent virus
Laden droplets breathed out by an
infected person from entering into your
lungs the paper the mask is made of
creates a resistance to the flow of air
so some of the error that you expel from
your mouth escapes around the edges of
the mask the warm air that you breathe
out is saturated with humidity the air
that escapes at the top edge of the mask
condenses on your lenses because they
are cooler than your worm rest so my
trick is to install a barrier to prevent
the air from escaping at the top edge of
the mask I'll show you the very simple
trick that I learned when I was working
in research now I'll show you how to
install the barrier to do this all you
need is two pieces of equipment very
simple a piece of tissue and a roll of
masking tape either the green or the
white one inch wide or a two and a half
centimeters wide start by tearing off of
T so though it's free maybe a little
more than three inches long and you can
either cut it with a pair of scissors if
you want it to be neater and and now
we'll turn the camera down towards the
mask so you can see what I'm doing now
we're going to apply it on the outside
of the mask the outside of a surgical
mask has the darker color this is blue
and it's white on the inside so you put
on the outside of the mask on the top
side the top side of the mask is the one
that has the metal band which you can
feel
so I applied a piece of tape along the
top edge would have it overlap the edge
a little bit so that it overlaps like
this so this part here will adhere to
your nose Ridge so turn the mass the
other way and now we're going to apply
it take my glasses off I'll just dry
make sure that the skin is dry and free
of oil and and moisture and apply of the
the tape and the metal band over the
over your the top of your nose and press
it down and go tie it here pull it down
over the chin and there you are and this
is good for many hours now if you have
sensitive skin it might be a good idea
to do a test maybe for 10 or 15 minutes
to make sure that you don't develop a
rash before closing I want to add a
caveat everything in this world is not
perfect and this method belongs to the
imperfect world may live in there will
be slight flogging if you're using the
barrier method in very humid
surroundings or if you're breathing hard
otherwise it should be an improvement
over wearing the mask without the
barrier I hope you will find these
instructions useful and until the kovat
19 crisis is over don't forget to
respect your social distancing if you'd
like to see my videos about electric
bicycles and bicycle campers and if you
haven't already done so subscribe to my
channel thank you for watching
you
[Music]